Cockpit 298 (#655)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2023-08-09-cockpit-298.md

---
title: Cockpit 298
author: jelle
date: '2023-08-09'
tags: cockpit
slug: cockpit-298
category: release
summary: 'PatternFly 5 support, Stratis pool NBDE Support'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 298:

## PatternFly 5

> Cockpit, Cockpit-podman, Cockpit-machines and Cockpit-ostree now all use [PatternFly 5](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cockpit, Cockpit-Podman, Cockpit-Machines and Cockpit-OSTree now all use [PatternFly 5](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/).
```

> ## Storage: Stratis pools can now be bound to a Tang server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Storage: Stratis pools can be bound to Tang servers
```

> In addition to a passphrase (or instead of it), a Stratis pool can now use Tang server for encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stratis pools can now use Tang server for encryption, either in addition to or instead of a passphrase.
```

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 298:

## PatternFly 5

Cockpit, Cockpit-Podman, Cockpit-Machines and Cockpit-OSTree now all use [PatternFly 5](https://www.patternfly.org/get-started/release-highlights/).

## Storage: Stratis pools can be bound to Tang servers

Stratis pools can now use Tang server for encryption, either in addition to or instead of a passphrase.

![screenshot of stratis pools can now be bound to a tang server]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/298-storage-stratis-pools-can-now-be-bound-to-a-tang-server.png)

## Try it out

Cockpit 298 is available now:

* [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)
* [Cockpit Client](https://flathub.org/apps/details/org.cockpit_project.CockpitClient)

* [Cockpit Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/298)
* [Cockpit Fedora 38](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-c054c64fce)
* [Cockpit Fedora 37](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-f3b3f454df)
* [Cockpit-Podman Fedora 38](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-8c8c9d4038)
* [Cockpit-Podman Fedora 37](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-3de0727278)

> * [Cockpit-Machines Fedora 39](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2023-8b8df361ce)

Reviewer: F39???
